P1: I’ve always been a math person, but strangely the person who most helped me become devoted to math as a field of study is my English teacher, Mr. Grant. He taught me to articulate my views but also learn to love learning for the sake of learning. 
	 

Before Mr. Grants class, doing well in school was natural for me, but I saw it as a challenge of mastery. I accepted learning as a means by which to achieve mastery. However Mr. Grant helped me appreciate and find joy in learning by helping me see it is okay not to be perfect and not have all the answers.  Throughout highschool, English has been my most challenging class. I was generally able to coast smoothly except when I would have an essay to write, which would result in weeks of struggle wrapped up with a grand finale of shouting, tears and a panicked submission 1 hour before 11:59 pm. While writing I would have a hyper self conscious voice of judgment criticizing each word choice or divergence in my train of thought. This voice ultimately lead to intellectual constipation, which would snowball into anxiety and more constipation. Mr. Grant helped me overcome this voice by encouraging me to be more vulnerable and experiment as a writer but also by teaching me to have the humility to not let perfection stop progress. He taught me to view writing with a flexible lens because a large part of writing is not the prescribed thought but the spontaneous process of discovery. 
By moving away from the myopic view of perfection in the journey of learning, I found passion in the act of learning itself (and getting some A+’s along the way). 


Mr. Grant inspired me to challenge perceptions I have of myself and others. One work that changed my view was the Great Gatsby. Fitzgerald's use of metaphors and symbolism to represent abstract ideas and provide insight into the characters was nothing short of awe-inspiring. It was the first time I didn’t see writing as just ink on a page but as a work of art. Just as Cevanne is able to capture the fluidity and subtle folds and shadows of a piece of fabric Fitzgerald was able to retell nuances truths about human experiences. I felt I could see myself in the conflicted and contradictory personalities Fitzgerald was able to capture. The characters were multidimensional, neither completely good nor evil, hero nor villain. It made me realize the 1 dimensionality I limit myself to in my own life, by viewing my own character through the lens of various labels. As I wandered with who I was in highschool, my identity felt lost at sea. I would cling to different labels like driftwood to give me a sense of who I am. Was I a runner, a math lover, a “half Asian”? The great gatsby made me realize I can select another answer, “all of the above”. I have also learned not to quickly label others, as human beings too complex, contradictory, and ever changing to be reduced by simplistic labels . 


Mr. Grant also challenged me to ask difficult questions. It is in asking the deeper questions and avoiding the easy answers that I learned courage does not always come from the battlefield or sports arena. In his class he showed us 1984 and “A modest proposal”, satires that challenged the status quo. Much like in Quantum mechanics or String theory these authors pursued truth that were disruptive to comfortable ways of thinking and human perception. I was inspired by the courage these authors had to write such bold critiques of society in a time when heretical writing was punished. I became more bold in asking questions and more open to the complex, unforgiving, yet non-judgemental, yet beautiful truth. 



Without Mr. Grant, I would probably still be a straight A student, but I wouldn’t have a love of learning or a sense of my future.







